We have few other tools but
I'm going to go through them before
we start building on
our local environments.
Right now, what I would like
to do is compare ThreeJS and
Babylon JS and let's look at the same
Thing that we've seen before.
Same basic seen on ThreeJS
is one other thing that to
compare with ThreeJS and
Babylon is their syntax.
Their syntax is a little bit different.
But they basically they
are doing the same thing.
Again here we're creating a 3D scene
by initiating a scene object and
creating a camera, which is
a perspective camera in this case,
and perspective camera allows you
renders things that are far away.
From you smaller than the things that are
close by, and if you look at the arguments
that we give to the perspective camera,
first one is field of view.
So that's the angle that
you are going to look at.
If it's a wider angle,
you'll see more and.
If not, you'll see less, and
the second one is the aspect ratio,
and usually what we give for
the aspect ratio is the windows,
inner width and inner height,
so we have the same ratio as
our screen if you're rendering
to the whole of the screen.
Third thing that we have and the fourth
thing that we have is at first the near
clipping point and
the second one is the far clipping points.
What this means is that if you have any
objects that are closer to you than
the near clipping points, they will
not be rendered they will not be shown
Anything further than far away from the
far clipping point will not be rendered.
And this is an efficiency thing.
We just render the things that are in
our range and it's important to us and
if you have the inclination to just
put a very big number for the fire.
Hoping points, just remember that will
affect your performance drastically.
So it's much better to have a smaller
clipping point than a larger one.
Second thing that we do is
create a Web GL renderer with
GL renderer is going to create
the 3D objects for us on the canvas.
And one thing that you have to give
to the render is to set its size and
in this case because we are going
to render it to the whole screen,
we have the window.inner width,
and window.inner height.
You can have it half the size and
you can render multiple
renders on one page as well.
And we add the renders DOM elements
which is a canvas element, okay?
So it is the canvas element and
we are appending that to the document.
That's why we don't have it.
We have the mesh.
Geometry is again what describes
the shape of the mesh.
In this case, again, a box.
And we have the width,
height and depth of it.
Materials is the basic material,
it is going to be uninteresting again and
you can give a color information and
other important things,
which we will see in the next chapter to,
the material information.
And cube is the mesh.
That weird finding.
This is the object that puts together
the geometry shape information and
the material information.
And finally,
we add all of those to our scene.
So you might create all
of these objects but
if you forget to add it to your scene,
then nothing will render.
It would be kind of with the equivalent of
if some actor is staying out of the scene.
Anytime they enter the scene and
to our view is when you
add them to the scene.
And everything is created
at the very center,
of your scene which is 000 position.
So to be able to see what we are creating,
we are moving our camera in the z axis,
which is the depth.
So we can pull back and
look at everything that is in front of us.
In this case, it's just one box.
Finally, we have an animate function,
which is taking the camera information and
giving it to the render and
trying to render it 60 times per second.
That is the comfortable lengths.
In speed of an animation,
if something is less than that it
will kind of look choppy and
not very refined.
And 60 frame is a great go for
any web experience.
And what requestAnimationFrame
does is takes this
information and
try to render it 60 times and
if it's not able to render
60 times it's kind of makes
it more efficiently renders
maybe skipping some of them but
in a way that the experience
is still smooth for the user.
And to our vendor, which was the web
JR Ranger we give the scene and
the camera to render, and
this animate function.
Is called once but it's good because
it has request animation frame and
it calls itself, it will run
until the end of your experience.
And so, not a very super interesting one.
We still have a box, but
we actually don't see much of it,
it looks kind of too deep,
but if you comment out,
the lines on animates function
that adds to our queue and
save it and run it,
we should have an animated queue.
Interesting, we lost it
[LAUGH] Let's try again.
Hopefully it will keep me silent.
All right, cool.
You can try this out on your
own as well and save it and
play with ThreeJS scene and see the
difference between Babylon and ThreeJS.
So now because we are running
this animate function
60 times per second,
adding a tiny bit of rotation
each time we'll start to
render the cube to rotate.
>> When you define a field of view,
does it still render the things
outside of the current field of view?
Can you choose whether to render dos or
earnouts for reasons?
>> Yes, the question was,
if we have a field of view of the camera,
what happens if something is on
the scene but it's off the camera.
So anything that you are not seeing
is not rendered through the camera.
You might still be able to render of
the canvas some, some other objects but
then they will be rendered they
won't be inside the animation.
Using the power AR,
VR headsets are quite costly.
They are unfortunately, with VR,
we the prices really came down but
for AR HoloLens device for example,
is More than $3,000 which
is super expensive,
but this device which is
a VR device from Facebook,
it starts from I think $250 and
that seems to be a very different pricing.
But over time like everything else,
the computers, the phones, everything
gets cheaper and cheaper once we find
a way to create them manufactured in bulk.